cool welcome everyone to the Jessica
paths core web lab weekly of March 19
today we have some new faces on the call
and so instead of like jumping right
into the typical stand up I just wanted
to make sure that like we well we got
just like a round of introductions quick
like just name location and just then
touch in some direction for the new for
the new people that join so that they
they understand how the car works and
how we structure our work etc and so
yeah like I'll start to be like kind of
like with Jessica dress project he's
forcing everyone to have calls everyone
they like talk about what they've done
do you ever wonder until the next like
I'm going to go through the line so I'm
from and imbued to the theme basically
this is my first day
hello guys I'm Vasco and I'm also as
yoga from Porto in Portugal
obviously this is also my first day here
with you and well I want to be part of
the team so let's go sweet welcome
welcome Victor
hello I am NOT new I think yes I'm
Victor I do not work mainly on
JavaScript directly but I am the lead of
the testing and dev team in a woman
working group so I'm here to help you
with nothing and everything that I could
and to make your developer life more
easy cool thank you John
hey guys yeah my name is Jonathan
working on some
like mostly medium allure party issues
on the JavaScript histories I'm not
really pitching the people must still
like okay step you pass I kept mr. Kane
the demon tree yep I live in Virginia in
the US sweet thank you give me three
Costa Rica I work mainly on JSA confess
pretty much taken and everything that
comes up over there yeah that's it cool
thank you rob hi I'm Rob I'm not really
new but I'm not here very often I've
only been on intermittent eight times I
am working sort of for a few months with
protocol apps on trying to sort of
condense a better strategy and approach
around documentation for all the
different parts of my view of us so
that's kind of what I'm doing right now
there's some ongoing work and the ipfs
docs repo but it's sort of cross-cutting
across everything so I'm trying to make
sure round in different places and for
those of you who are new if you run into
issues and things that are confusing or
complicated I would love to hear your
story about those or what's of problems
so that they're better addressed in the
documentation
instead attend options using awesome
thank you I think you have three new
people to give you some feedback on that
so cool Zane I'm just sort of new to the
project and like exploring and just
jumping on any sort of like issues that
are sort of popping up in JSON ipfs that
are low hanging fruit so yeah cool thank
you Alex
hi I'm Alex and based in London in the
UK working on the JavaScript repos thank
you for joining today Alex and taking
some time from your holidays to be part
of the Cal matchi later so I'm just
random contributor I'm developing some
bleep ear things like a piano trust and
a WebSocket star which has been annoying
people lately and yeah that's all I do
just joining you're there from time to
time thank you
awesome okay so I hoped for the
newcomers that liked this quick run
instructions although not very complete
but give you an idea like who is working
on what and so you know to ask questions
about specific things I like so I sent
you all like I've published to the
Jessup EFS repo document
MGMT that basically describes how we
track work on Jessup EFS when we track
work in a waffle board and then every
week we have this car where we share
what we have done what we are blocked
and what is next
you know in our our plates at our focus
the way that we pick things to work it
is pretty much by using the filtering
function on the waffle and isolating
something that is high priority to the
project and typically you can see that
by p0 p1 p2 and so on and so like before
we start like going super fast speed or
by just sharing our update so I want to
make sure that like everyone that is on
this call is comfortable with that
process
unlike peaking work and if everyone
liked especially the new ones know how
to to select tasks like do you have any
question about that specific part do
wash colics like you that are joining
this week is it completely clear
as we exactly exactly and so sometimes I
do a little bit of like cat herding job
of asking people they're actually based
on their interests based on their
previous experience and based on the
need of the project say I can do I focus
on a specific set of tasks for the
newcomers like I preferred not to do
that right away because there is like so
many things to like to grasp that is
better for you to just like go through
multiple issues or SPFs on just a weekly
appear and GSI PLD so that you get like
a more complete picture so this week
like try to like just open the three
waffle words and just like pick a bunch
of like difficult easy and difficult
easy is is more like a measure of time
it means like you should be able to do
it in a short amount of time rather than
like having to open ten thousand repos
so that you have a more complete picture
and then next week
we can like discuss on the learnings
probably give someone that information
to rob so that we can improve the
commutation and then I start like
narrowing the scope of each ones focus
if that that sounds cool cool
I know everyone listen I just wanna make
sure just like to get a hack from
everyone that we are all in the same
page
cool let's go to the epaulettes oh do we
have another queue for today John are
you available thank you so much cool
okay so vmx Volker is not here today
because he's visit speaking at the
conference but he did share a bed with
us basically he got just a PFS API to be
green again NCI Thank You Boulder and
Victor and Demetri and everyone that
contributed to that never heard it took
some weeks but now there is no reason
not to run the tests in CI again alright
listen as he says like he's pretty busy
with the conference for the rest of the
week that's it's like if you are blocked
in anything that Volker is working on
definitely send him an email or a slack
message you will which one so from me
while I've done last week I did a lot of
merges like a lot of review merges not
releases like Java PFS remains a 0:28
right now we are in the state where
Jessica fest as things emerged that
would require a minor version and every
time that bill is a minor version we
typically do something fair about
creating the release issue with the
iodides and I quiver and test from all
the other projects and so the next
release objects appear as Philippines
you know on the LI peer-to-peer front I
did finish like revamping the Cavs DHT
module right now the tests are all
passing again which they have been
failing for a while and so that's
unblocked my work on on the delegate
delegated routing modules which is what
I'm going to be focused on this week in
addition to the refractory now reputedly
node gets set up there is a issue called
appear to be next on probably peer to
peer that described self what I've been
bought most like so as I said like I've
been reviewing and merging a lot of
things myself and I'm always like the
last mile like the last reviewer to
every single PR
and it's kind of like an maintainable
right now her again sustainable right
now
and so like principal Pedro as like
taking responsibility on the UNIX FS
modules Volker is getting more
responsibility on the IP of the old ones
and I was left to share if people are
interested in the distribution like the
responsibility of other pieces of the
stack so that we have more people that
are super active and like super like
able to review really quickly all the
contributions you don't have to
volunteer right now I am thinking or
like opening an issue just like to have
that discussion and like to list also
what are the expectations when someone
becomes a captain and also to bring back
away to people to know who are the
captains like in the past we had like a
captain thing on the readme then we
dropped it for some reason and I know
she's like consider bringing back the
gun so so yeah that is my place any
questions for me anything that you are
blocked because I mean I know sounds
good
cool that means that like I went to all
the peers all right next one mati
so I have been doing some more work on
the lip area director for Wireshark
currently working on getting yeah MOOCs
this MOOC from Guayaquil that's working
and we're shocked and I would appreciate
some help because I have no idea what
I'm doing actually and the next thing
are or should I just let you finish
because I was going to coach next things
so on on that specific item so yeah max
speedy MOOC Sado and speedy stream are
all the same stream multiplexer there
are all variations of the speedy 3.1
protocol and so if you are looking to
the wire track this sector for those
protocols
you should look because there might be
some speedy Wireshark these sector
already available and then you just have
to chill it up to the variations
remember like speedy is the stream
multiplexer that then got repurposed to
HTTP 2 so I am kind of like assuming or
betting there is something out there
that gets used because of HTTP do and
well I found speedy I'm shocked but it
seems so old I can't get it to compile
and there has a lot of stuff change
because it was 4 years old or even older
and there's also not a problem because
marks are in so far I haven't found the
bugs are in wire sharks packets and I
have found actually one but that isn't
taking actual connections it's not
turning the max data into conversation
that I can use to dissect it if I have
expanded in an understandable way got it
I figure just mention that you should
talk with cook so like a parent Rico
books are some experience like has done
some work on that in the past
and so I go on the next thing I would do
is somehow resolve those WebSockets are
problems but I have no idea how to get
back all this heats up and yeah I don't
really know what I'm doing because I'm
just new to this thing that I can be
back memory leaks this way and yeah
which also needs some help with that
because it's also completely something
new for me and on the issue I created
petrol or PG te has hasn't responded yet
so I think the the last thing I read
about this was to be so and and Norris
possibly was working on on making it a
proper circuit discovery server or
something like that I'm wondering if the
f if we should spend more effort on the
JavaScript web sockets or or if we
should not be so continue with the p2p
circus thing is incrementing I think
bizzle canceled that's never what he is
not busy with other things but even
though I I don't like even if that is a
correct answer given that I think like
what much he is looking is to get some
help to develop these skills and like
dividing these kind of problems it might
be just like a good module to like get
some you knowledge getting your skills
and like apply that knowledge directly
with the potential to actually have some
impact in the short term and so I'll
think like if people have
recommendations to Mattie right now or
like Warren good tutorial Susie like
perf analysis of how can i you server
definitely send to him like if you have
recommendations definitely send him I'm
also going to look on my notes and see
if I can find good tutorials I think I
have some in mind so that you can have
some guidance and I'll also being a draw
again because II definitely as
and I'm experiencing that sounds good
yes
so I'm sorry it's the current plan but
we are gonna fix the leaks in Viet are
done
what I haven't drilled that correctly
because connection problems so the plan
that David said right now is that we fix
the memory leaks of we Astoria and we
don't implement this new circuit like
that the plan should be just double
check with deserve I'm like what is East
one like easy actively working or not
and then from there make a decision like
where most time is going to be spent but
meanwhile definitely export the idea by
just fixing memory leaks and addition
you I wanted to mention I have already
written a peer-to-peer circuit version
of WebSocket stars so that one is
already out there there's PR open and
you PDP web so it's our repo there is a
PR open that's right like you asked
Twitter a question about if it's all the
problem if you know you won but the
other PR with to get away from socket IO
and to play circuit only
there is a completely different
transport like we could have simply
migrated you can list that as a blocked
issue that any feedback here on the
crypto I think yes emissary it is
something that you need like a more
clear answer
I say I think that pull request is
blocked on the lipid pier we factor as
well which probably will look like one
and well it could be implemented with
the haircuts and I don't think you like
X so I am a bit concerned about the
current face of WebSockets or as it
crashes when people when we have enough
peers connected to it and right now the
deployment is not stable at all and it
keeps crashing
so much we have a lot of peers would be
great to have this fixed especially
since WebSocket story is not the default
and not WebRTC for anyone and how much
rent does it actually need in terms of
gigabytes or how much would it mean
sorry like I'm going to drop here
because we are like getting into the
weeds of like specific problem and this
call is more designed to be a bit and we
have nine minutes left if we if we need
we can I call I have another call to
discuss more in depth so that we the
three of us clarity and we are on the
same page that's good yes okay so if you
you have any other I am to share or
should we go away
just two more things basically I want to
continue finishing the peer-to-peer
dissector when I get time to do it and
eventually do a demo and this will work
and we also try to improve the you know
trust Kenya
all right thank you okay Gianluca next
sure so we got some from on the only
only a speaker David we've merged a
couple of those papers that was great I
also did a lot of work a few hours
rebasing
and some other work on the NPR pr's I'm
gonna made some changes to the
interrupts past so just changes the
amount tweaks around the number and this
week is probably just you know
addressing any issues that are coming up
in paper I'm curious it's such a large
unit of work there's 1500 change change
lines in this how the best way and it's
time for us to review it successfully is
it basically pieced ready or that
there's cool
so the best way to move forward is to
make a very strong test suite that Mike
covers all the things that we can
imagine just to make sure we didn't miss
any case like for example go ipfs is a
very strong test suite for pinning so we
just like should map all those tests to
just IP pestle and as well then yes it's
a very long PPR but it's like an
entirely new feature like we we don't
have pinning as a separate module we
have pinning as like parts that is a
component inside just a fitness repo
that's why makes it feel so big and as
you said like it's a thing that has been
going for a while like almost a year now
I mean you know so you kind of like pull
up in size and like pinning itself is a
complex thing and so 500 aligns for
pinning it's like not that scary I think
it is correct we don't have enough tests
so probably we should like have a
thousand wives for tests if or even more
and just make sure we don't sure okay
great I will go and cross-reference some
of the go-go ipfs tests for that we do
have like 5 or 600 lines already
probably test for between the Interop
and all the different no HDPE Eli's or
Jase ipfs but I'll it's great to look at
go ipfs and another question is that
err so another thing that I I am a
little bit stuck on what really would be
the next best thing for me to work on
after this ok but I like to just get a
look yeah so I'm looking through those
for something else looking through their
waffle board all right yes just like
check the waffle board or if you if you
have a couple of things in mind that you
want to discuss them more in-depth
always feel welcome to schedule a call
on calendar ly as we did couple weeks
ago this is my food - then explain more
in one of those items good see by the
way I haven't like reviewed the PR again
because I haven't seen T Irene and so
let me know when that's ready for me
like to go through the five on all right
good all right cool Demetri
so I worked on a few of his Ezekiel
improvements I added the ability to use
lemon pebbles discussed with Victor
Tuesday's 5ee exec yeah the dirt there -
Marmot variables now jsn go as suggested
we got this serpent stuff merged and the
tutorial wrapped and everything there so
it's a big step I think next I'll be
working on a few more of his the CTL
improvements and I've been looking into
server discovery and looking to be they
have related mostly to the stuff that
booth had previously discussed this well
with circuit relay discovery and things
like that but kind of spans to pretty
much the whole would be to be stuck and
a better way of announcing in scoring
services the reason is because like the
intro tests showed that send in a
specific message for circuit really it's
really really slow to discover that that
really so thanks every move that rock
there so what else
oh yeah more because these improvements
than anything sounds good are do you
feel like the the next items are the
most important ones right now like
gluten so that's thanks I've looked at
the busy races and I see one of the
things that is available there's a few
bucks there's a few small bucks and
waffle work but the next big kind of
chunk of work it seems to be tht so I
can definitely take care of the p0 ones
that are just smaller issues that are
just basically bugs which is what I see
in the laughing Port Graham got it
definitely open the three waffle boards
because there is just a few fest just
like Beauty pier and just IPL be well
just leap it appear and just ipfs are
well groomed
still getting set up there are multiple
P 1 and P zeroes some of them are dogs
some of them are just like features like
go through it quickly and I see if I can
compare with these next items and see
something that trumps ins I really there
are some urgent things there that need
to like some some attention
ok thank you thank you thank you
Victor Victor hello
so in jail and I haven't gone too much
since last time
the one thing I have done is to test
jfif as a bi with new core idea first
release there is one breaking change
with the waltons list of its work which
we're gonna have to release after the
stable release has been done other than
that everything is working fine the
TouchWiz runs fine in browsers and
everything currently I am NOT on the
jfif employment and the Gateway because
the node sometimes encounters this issue
with missing node idea
and also in general the demon does not
handle errors very well
he basically crashes in case there is an
errand so it's basically impossible to
run jails like if I thought the gateway
traffic crashes all the time
Devin can we get a like a batch of
stress tests that you think it mimics
what the demon gets objective in the
gateway so that we can like reproduce
those failures faster and then make sure
we catch all the exceptions the the
issue is not requesting items from the
gateway the issue is just running the
demon so if you if you run the demon
locally for 5-10 minutes
after a while it's gonna crash and
basically we just have to add like a
little try catch wherever we are
actually starting the node and handle
any error in basically there is no
specific ways it happens sometimes it
can be running for one hour sometimes
it's just one minute but if you connect
to the web sockets tour so you get
connected what appears you will at one
point or another have a crush people
sounds good like what I was asking
because there is gateway requests there
is API requests and there is even
connections and so these things that
interact with the nails eventually we'll
put it in a weird state that will throw
an exception at the friend we it's not
getting caught I mean the way the
JavaScript works if there is an
exception a bit doesn't get caught just
crushes the whole process in the browser
for majority of the haps that's okay
because the brother just switched sense
the whole thing and it's fine for people
like developing applications like they
do their own or anything it seems like
the demon is not catching the errors
properly and so if we have that stress
test it's useful but like I also know
that there's like a couple of ones that
we already identified even the line of
code in Sakai a let's causing a problem
so let's fix those first
for example Dmitry this would be like
something to the reporter that's need to
know so I would disagree that it's
important that we fix those specific
it's important that we have a proper
error handler for any issue not for
those specific issues like we have to be
acceptable that there can be errors and
there will be errors anywhere and we
need to have a global handler that
doesn't crash the the thing is like
weeds no js' the the lore the wisdom is
yes you can have a kept process uncaught
exception and I catch the whole thing
but in comparison to other runtimes like
to other languages like Java and stuff
like that
it is cheaper in not just land to reboot
the process then to try to unwind some
weird stay and so this is like common no
js' web application what people did like
in Java when it was always very
important for you to like untangle
things because like restarting the JVM
was like super expensive you know it was
different and so we need agree we need
to have a way to cut and called
exceptions but we also need a way to
identify exactly where they are coming
from and like fix those problems because
essentially there should not be a weird
site where the nails enters that then
cannot get out in and so like
conventional conventional wisdom of
deciding process on cards will not work
necessarily for what ipfs but we can
also like explain more on this on an
issue so that we don't steal everyone's
time we already two minutes over I'm
sorry for taking like can we just like
finish Victor and then like do Zayn and
then just close anything like closing
three minutes is that okay for everyone
okay see sometimes up sweet thank you
okay Peter you have any other the future
I am working on my papers without going
tough good oh one thing that just came
to my mind it's like there is a chicken
and egg problem when do I pee first gets
released Jessica first gets to get up
letters which now has a breaking change
so it's kind of okay to release one
first and then the other second because
this is a client but because go ipfs
sheeps where the web UI which uses
Jessica's API now
where
do I needs to be shipped at the same
time so there is like a triangle here
that we need to like to be our
synchronized in order for a successful
guy peoples please be sure so maybe it
will be a good moment to start with
proper proper migration process for
gensokyo fest where we make it
compatible with the last version so then
we can release a version though it's
both compatible with 13 and 14 and 1 we
release 15 we remove the compulsory 13
and that way we have released the
library and we don't have to really care
you mean eh 3 pyrin nice wee PAP is
defense yeah the GFI PFS api for example
change from returning node to returning
array so depending on the coop a first
version we would return differently and
that way will be compatible with both ok
but I know that there's any sure let's
continue to go with Sharon Peacham cool
Zane cool so I'm just finished off a
bootstrap here validation PR thanks for
all the comments was really super
helpful um then what I was doing that I
noticed that the IP 6 and IP 4
validations on jeaious like multi-format
are actually incorrect so i try to fix
this from upstream but that doesn't seem
like it's gonna be happening and then I
dug a little bit deeper and notice that
ipv6 was broken as well and fixing IP vs
ipv6 is a little bit more complicated
and tricky because there's so many
different variations about formats so
I'll be looking to sort of like fix that
this upcoming week and then taking a
stab at IPL de bug which is basically
adding a custom hashing function for
putting objects yeah and things blocking
that's it sweet thank you
cool I'll take a look into the ipv6 of
you for thing as well
I think you know I know what you
mentioned yeah cool
all right so we have one last question
from Rob and then I have my famous
question every call
go ahead wrong yeah I just wanted to ask
I have that PR I think one to 63 about
documenting that yeah boolean argument
in the constructor options for IP of us
and I had tried to keep it kind of
concise because there's not a whole lot
of room there for like a giant pile of
documentation but I think the questions
other people will ask to point towards
there needs to be room for some more
description about how and when and why I
take use various options and so I'm
wondering if we should document that
more more normatively rather than have
like an example usage block with some
some comments in the code actually have
some documentation of the ipfs
constructor in the options it takes on
that specific PR I have jumped with
multiple times
and I always like develop my cell phone
thinking should the behavior should be
this one or should be what people like
essentially when you use go ipfs if
there is a and in its repo and if you
call in it again if you'll fail and it
just sounds like already the record
exists and we have to mimic it that in
chasity FS so if you do you know and
then if you doing you know again on the
same repo which will fail and so you the
second time you said oh no you have to
change in it to false so that that he
doesn't try to in it but like so many
people I get in this which I'm asking
myself multiple times should we just
like check if a repo is there and if it
is just like let it pass we paint it
like set to true or should the default
be in each other true if there is a repo
and false if there is a repo is that
even like a sign default I'm not sure
like Shawn's even more confusing but and
so I yeah very open to suggestion so we
can add more dogs we can like and a full
example just like to explain is to
people or just change the behavior and
make what people expect which seems like
everyone just wants to do a new ipfs and
get it done I guess Demetri yeah I agree
everyone wants to do a good fess I think
it's the same thing it's the cleanest
just print the warning saying hey so
ready initialize skipping initialization
but just random that and perhaps there
is like any neat option which like if
people want a clean repo every single
time they can say like force through or
like something which again changes a
little bit of the flow compared to ipfs
but like one is more still used on the
term you know you wanna use mostly on
the browser so it might be valid
argument to change how it did this I
cancer help Europe to think about these
things well so it sounds like there's
actually some discussion that needs to
be happening as to how it should
function so maybe I or somebody should
open an issue for that I was more
wondering whether I should step back
from what I was doing in that PR Andrea
proach it as how do we read how do we
document the ipfs constructor in the
events and all that like specific things
that don't belong in that core
documentation in a more direct way
rather than having like this usage thing
with some comments in lot right like
have an actual step back and say we need
to have a structured documentation of
this function got it we okay on there I
think we can like on the section below
so that's like kind of like the simple
usage is done for which a lot of
developers usual copy bites copy paste
multiple times and like change a little
bit and then there is like the API below
which typically points to interface IP
FS or but we can have some like the
events for example B describes there
which is kind of like what just leave it
appear does I think we can can do that
pass right now before we have this other
discussion that tells us if we should
change
okay so I should actually close up here
and open something totally different
yeah or all coding you're working over
at PR it's not it keeps these three okay
we can continue okay cool all right I
don't see any more hands up or any more
questions
well my famous question is a simple one
given that we have this discussion there
is a waffle board and also as always i'm
available if you need to chat about
anything just use my calendar there's
everyone feel confident on what they
have to do this week is there anyone
that is not sure everyone yeah okay I
see some hands some thumbs up some some
nodding hands okay cool all right thank
you so much and thank you for sorry for
like spending 10 extra minutes I hope
that like next week week and confine
ourselves to just the 30 regular minutes
okay cool have a fun week see you on the
interwebs on IRC and all the channels my
failure to tell